
## Overview
### Date-time checks
Date-times are complex. As labels for points in time, they have features of other types of measurements, and when correctly parsed, can be used in computations (e.g., to compute duration). Users have requested the ability to query, filter or plot data values by date-times. Before data values can be queried or filtered, they must be parsed and interpreted. Many programming languages have libraries for date-time parsing, and may also layer on their own interpretations. The simplest solution would have been to accept the datetime interpretation of one processing language, but this was not consistent with the language-agnostic spirit of EML. 

There are two parts to EML date-time checking, and consequently, two checks, which work together.
1. examine dateTimeFormatString: EML uses a formatString in metadata to specify how date time values will appear in data. For this check, the working group created a list of "[preferred dateTime formats](https://github.com/EDIorg/ECC/blob/master/practices/dateTimeFormatString/dateTimeFormatString_list.csv)", which generally reflect ISO-accepted date times. Code reads this list and creates regular expressions, to which EML dateTime formatStrings can be compared, that is, a match between the format string and every individual data value in that column.  
2. dateFormatMatches: Only datetimes with preferred formatStrings can be checked for congruence. 

Both dateTime checks return a "warn" if their conditions are not met. With this setting, non-passing data packages are still accepted, but the submitter is aware of the potential problems. Datasets that meet ECC standards will be the most easily reused for synthesis.

### Funding
Increasingly, funders (e.g., NSF) are asking for datasets to be searchable by funding code. In EML 2.1.x the funding element in the project tree holds that information, and is unstructured. A planned addition to EML 2.2 will have additional fields for structuring award information. Currently, the fundingPresence check simply looks for the element's presence, although this is likely to be revisited after the EML 2.2 release.

## To be released 2018 May 16
- Date-time checks:
  - Justification:  users often need the ability to query or filter data values by date. Before data values can be queried or filtered, dates in data entities must be parsed and interpreted.
  - dateTimeFormatString
    - Type: metadata
    - Action: reads an external list of [preferred dateTime formatStrings](https://github.com/EDIorg/ECC/blob/master/practices/dateTimeFormatString/dateTimeFormatString_list.csv) (generally ISO). Compares ```//attribute/measurementType/dateTime/formatString``` to that list
    - Returns: warn, if given formatString is not in that list
  - dateFormatMatches
    - Type: congruence
    - Action: confirms that datetime data values adhere to the format string given in metadata. Runs only for dateTime/formatString in the preferred list.
    - Returns: warn, if one or more of the data values do not match the formatString


- fundingElementPresence 
  - Type: metadata
  - Action: looks for presence of the optional EML element ```<funding>```. 
  - Returns: warn, if absent
  - Increasingly, funders (NSF) are asking for datasets to be aggregated by funding code. In EML 2.1.x this is the only location to record that information. A planned addition to EML 2.2 would have additional fields for structuring award information.





