
## Agenda for today:
### Feedback from EDI LPIs to report/discuss 
* their recommendations
    * The "preferred" list 
      * should be short. They would like to see a list that could be distributed as a recommendation. 
         * OK to use this list to promote ISO
         * return an info - they feel that warn is too strong, because most datasets we handle are from locales that don't use ISO
      * what we are calling a "preferred" list should be renamed "guaranteed_verifiable"
    * congruence check should try to parse anything
      * warn if fail

### November release
* Our WG should decide 
   * how/if to use Nov 13 water cooler
   * if checks can still go into production 11/15: dateTimeFormatString, dateTimeCongruence
   * they could have a longer period on staging, eg. 6 months.

## Notes
### dateTimeFormatStringPreferred
  * Behavior
    * ISO is preferred format, Colin has written the rule-based recommendation, which we will distribute 
      * coding the check is easier with a list, and some people may want to download it. 
      Hwever, we expect most people (data managers) to use the rule-based recommendation, not the list.
   * Deployment
      * deploy as "warn" on staging only. Next wednesday (Nov 15) 
      * after discussion with IMC (monday, nov 13) consider recoding as an "info" for production. 
         * We already know that about half the current datasets do not have datetime formats 
         in the preferred list, so this would be more 'user-friendly'
         * if we go with info, we will 
            * examine mechanism to make the info more prominent in the report presentation layer. 
               * e.g., failure would result in a yellow box for ALERT! 
            * periodically monitor check responses. if compliance reaches an acceptable level (e.g., 90%), consider recoding as a warn.
     
  
### dateTimeCongruence
   * Behavior: 
      * check already tries to parse any string. so effectively is already complying with EDI suggestion. 
   * Deployment: 
      * as warn, on staging. in tandem with dateTimeFormatStringPreferred
         * Nov 15
         * Consider additional testing, with dedicated dataset
  
### Future activities:
   * EDI should help people get their datetime values into ISO formats. Possible approaches:
      * Reformat an incoming dataset, changing only the datetimes
         * in a workflow, product is a derived dataset
      * work with submitters
         * offer a tool to ingest a data table, reformat during data package creation
            * should include a step to ensure the meaning of datetime values has not changed 
         * outreach, to address local cultures. e.g., 
            * data managers feel they cannot alter data that are submitted by scientists
            * scientists still using mm/dd/yy
   * EML 2.2
      * suggest improvement to documentation
         * recommend ISO, sample format strings comply with with ISO notation
      * suggest enhancement to EML 2.2
         * add an optional system attribute to dateTimeFormatString element
            * if missing, assume ISO-8601
         * justification: assist parsers. it is possible for datetime values (in data) to have more than one format notation, and 
         these could be system dependendent 
         * examples 
```
         <dateTimeFormat system="ISO-8601">YYYY-MM-DD</dateTimeFormat>
         <dateTimeFormat system="java">uuuu-MM-DD</dateTimeFormat>
````
