# Notes, 2018-02-22

## Background material

### Proposed check for project/funding
the EDI advisory board suggested that we be able to inventory datasets by funding code -- this is starting to appear as a request on 
funders' lists. In EML 2.1.1, there is one element to contain info about a datasets funding, dataset/project/funding, which is a text type. 

Duane has outlined a simple check to learn about its presence; see sticky row 77 in the canonical list:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14r-74onIKdq2oUmn5U7itX5bfBkfJ16_BhaqTEaul74/edit#gid=0

It is a simple presence-check, that results in a warn

* how much do we want to know about the usage of this element before we turn this sort of check on? It's optional element in 
an optional tree. So although it is useful, and currently the only way to record an award number (which is what EDI may want to 
mine from it), it may not be broadly used by submitters.
* in EML 2.2 (anticipated soon), there are some enhancements planned for structured info about a project's award. It is 
planned to have a repeatable <award> node, which has a dedicated element for funding. It's content is still a text 
type. Do we want to proceed with a 2.1-focused funding-check? or wait for 2.2, and create an award check? or some combination 
of the two, that makes use of what might be present in datasets now (in 2.1), and recognizes that it may take years for the 
community to start populating a 2.2 award field. See
** https://github.com/NCEAS/eml/issues/266
** the attached screenshot of 2.2 branch.


### dateTimeCongruence check
is still not ready for production, mainly because of the way Java has chosen to handle datetimes (which is not quite ISO). 
Duane can summarize when we talk, and you can see some experience with it here: https://github.com/EDIorg/ECC/issues/8


### EML 2.2 in general
Margaret can give a short summary or answer questions if needed. For the most part, I don't think these will impact any current 
checks, mainly because 2.2 is backward compatible. But because the checker was written against 2.1, we should be aware of proposed 
new versions.

New features include (from email from gastil to the LTER IMC, 2/16): 
* provisions for semantic annotation
* expanded text type fields
* more structured project tree including funding metadata
* expansion of and corrections to standard units
* data usage citation. 


## NOTES
### Duanes summary - datetime congruence: 
java is letting us down. seems to have it's own interpretation of some format. particularly happens with time zones. other things, eg, java demands hh be only 1-12 hrs and HH for 0-23. So Mark and Duane have considered alternatives:
this group had talked about using regular expressions. can we 
* Proposal: 
** convert a format string to a regex. then matching would be datetime value to a regex, not a string. 
** we could just do this in java, but the converstion of datetime to regex could be used by others, so it should be open. 
** proposal is to write it as a service (so could be written in anything). our code could be a client of htat service.
* Current state of things
** python had many datetime pkgs, but does not address this particular need. 
** Gastil asks: hmm, why not? has anyone tried? 
* consider turning off the check in staging, since EDI uses that for draft data packages, and the check causes confusion.
* leave it on in development, to gather more info and for the die-hards.
