
# 2018-04-12 11:00-08
## Agenda
* Progress report (Duane) - refactoring datetime congruency check to use regular expressions instead of java datetime library.
* May release summary 
* Progress on action items https://github.com/EDIorg/ECC/blob/master/meetings/2018-02-22_notes_mob.md#action-items
* Implications of EML 2.2

## Action Items
1. May 15 (Duane): three checks go public: dateTimePreferred, dateTimeCongruence, fundingELementPresence. 
add three checks to staging today (or whenever convenient)
1. April 30 (Margaret) draft message to users
1. May EDI newsletter (Margaret) draft bit about new checks.
1. before May 15 (all) test some datasets in staging

## Notes:
Duane demoned his python data parser for dateTimePreferred, 
which is based on "parsimonius.py". THe code generates a list of regular expressions, then uses
that to test whether an asserted format complies. Discussed mechanims for adding more allowed formats if needed. Basically, Duane 
will need to adapt the code to produce that regex.

Changes to dateTimeCongruence: we had originally planned for this check to try to test congruence of any date time, even if it is not in
the preferred list. But that depended on java to parse dates, and we are no longer using that. So now, we can only check congruence 
of dateTimes that are in the preferred list. This will be simpler overall.

Discussed implications for EML 2.2. possible options
* A. checks could be version-specific. would be added to the XML template (and require a report.xsd change. ).
* B. only a few checks will be impacted so far (eg, fundingElementPresence), so adaptations for version could just be a change in logic.
* C. more drastic suggestions include things like only checking the most recent schema version- not popular. 

Current best option: option B (code changes). We already check both EML 2.0 and 2.1, and we do not expect everyone to go for 2.2 
right away. 
