# Meetings

Dir holds meeting notes, as needed. if you add material, please include your name and date in filename, please.  Readme should hold agenda of next call.


# Next call: 2017-11-30 11:00-08
## Agenda
* feedback from LTER IMC to report/discuss 
* next steps


### Feedback from EDI LPIs to report/discuss 
* their recommendations
    * The "preferred" list 
      * should be short. They would like to see a list that could be distributed as a recommendation. 
         * OK to use this list to promote ISO
         * return an info - they feel that warn is too strong, because most datasets we handle are from locales that don't use ISO
      * what we are calling a "preferred" list should be renamed "guaranteed_verifiable"
    * congruence check should try to parse anything
      * warn if fail

### November release
* Our WG should decide 
   * how/if to use Nov 13 water cooler
   * if checks can still go into production 11/15: dateTimeFormatString, dateTimeCongruence
   * they could have a longer period on staging, eg. 6 months.

-----------------------

# Next call: 2017-11-16 11:00-07
## Agenda
* feedback from LTER IMC to report/discuss 
    * watercooler monday, datetime checks went into production wednesday
    
* review results of leadingTrailingWhitespace experiment, consider downgrade 
    * everyone had this action item: 
        * add white space, upload to portal-s, see if there are problems
        * any results to report?
        
* potential new checks
    * header/attributeName match
    * consider checks for ecocomDP dataset (likely postponed)

## November release
* FYI, would have gone into production 11/15: dateTimeFormatString, dateTimeCongruence

